# Structure-based generation of 3D small-molecule drugs: Are We There Yet?
This is a benchmarking study for current 3D structure-based generative models, focusing on the chemical plausibility of generated structures. Novel metrics were proposed to facilitate the development of this area.


## Dependencies
### Conda environment:
A conda environment file is provided to install the conda environment.
```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate cheminfo
```
### Package requirement
The versions of key packages used in this study are shown as following:
Package  | Version
--- | ---
Python | 3.11.9
rdkit | 2023.9.6
useful-rdkit-utils | 0.56

### Data availability
All the datasets used in metrics are provided, the ring system frequency of ZINC20 and ZINC22 drug-like molecules are under `data` folder. The BM scaffold file extracted from ZINC20 and ZINC22 drug-like molecules could be downloaded from [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/datasets/yang2531/BM_scaffold_ZINC).


## Structure of the repo
### Molecules generated by each algorithm
The molecules generated by each algorithm are saved in folders named after the respective algorithms. 
All metrics and known medicinal chemistry filters are applied to each set of molecules in the `Ring_system.ipynb` file located within each folder.

### Apply metrics to your own molecules
For detailed information about applying ChEMBL ring occurance based metric, please refer to the original github repo from Dr. Walters [useful_rdkit_utils](https://github.com/PatWalters/useful_rdkit_utils/blob/master/notebooks/demo_ring_systems.ipynb) and also see wonderful blog from Dr. Walters [practicalcheminformatics](https://practicalcheminformatics.blogspot.com/2022/12/identifying-ring-systems-in-molecules.html), [new home of his blogs](https://patwalters.github.io/year-archive/). You could also see `Ring_system.ipynb` file located within each folder to find example on how to use it.

For applying BM scaffolds occurrence-based metric, please see examples from `BM_scaffolds_occurance.ipynb` on how to apply them to your own data. We also created `BM_scaffold_checker_ZINC22.py` for ease of using huge file that saves BM scaffolds extracted from ZINC22.

### Figure generation
All figures presented in the manuscript were generated using the `Picture_drawing.ipynb` file.

## Contact
Feel free to create an issue or email Bo Yang (yang2531@purdue.edu) or Dr. Jianing Li (jianing-li@purdue.edu) if you have any questions!
